On July 20th, 1969, one of the most phenomenal events made his way into the
history books. When the Apollo 11 completed its historic mission to the moon.
Although the most brilliant minds helped to make sure that the Eagle had landed,
computers also played a significant role. The guidance system that navigated the
spacecraft was one of the earliest forms of modern computing. That same
computer, the one that helped America's lunar dreams become a reality, took up
the space of an entire room and had one-10,000th the computing power of the
thing that almost everyone of you carry in your pockets today, a smartphone.
Computer hardware and software have had such a dramatic evolution that what was
once only used to power rockets, now shapes the entire way our world functions.
Think about your day, did you grab a snack? Turn on your TV? Take a driving in
your car? Computers were along for the ride literally, computers are everywhere.
So, here's the rundown. By the end of this course, you'll understand how
computers work and get a grasp of the building blocks of IT. We're going to
cover the basics of how computer hardware performs calculations, and we're going
to actually build a computer from the ground up. We'll look at how operating
systems control and interact with hardware, we'll take a look at the Internet
and get a better understanding of how computers talk to each other. We'll also
spend time learning about how applications and programs tie all of this
together, and let humans interact with these systems. Finally, we'll cover
important lessons on problem-solving with computers, and cover the communication
skills that are so critical when interacting with others in IT. Whether you're
looking for a job in the IT industry or you just want to learn higher laptop
connects to the Internet, understanding how computers work at every level can
help you in your day-to-day life and in the workplace. But first, let's take a
step way back, back to where all begin, even before the Apollo 11 mission
touchdown so you can understand how and why we use computers today.