To land an interview for a job you want, make sure your resume and online
professional presence are in order. This will help you stand out from the other
applicants when you apply. Your resume is your first introduction to a new
company. Make sure your resume is easy to read and clearly shows the recruiter
or hiring manager that you're a strong fit for the job you're applying for.
Avoid using lots of filler text in your resume. If you're new to the industry,
you may not have a lot to put on your resume but that's okay, you don't need to
list out every piece of software you've used or networking protocol you've ever
learned about, stick to your relevant qualifications. Use a standard resume
template and be consistent with your formatting and structure. Proofread your
resume and have someone else review it too. You don't want grammar and spelling
errors to be your first impression with a potential employer. There's a lot more
to say about resumes, so I've included more material in the supplemental
reading. You should also make sure you have an up-to-date online presence. Your
profile should look professional and have the most current resume, a photo, and
updated contact info. Don't forget to do this, employees are using sites like
Linkedin more and more to reach out to candidates. Now, when you find a job that
you want to apply for you want to learn as much as you can about the role. First
place defines information is in the job description. The description will
usually include the roles, responsibilities and requirements and some
information about the company. Take some time to understand those details and
make sure it's a good fit for you. Feel free to ask your recruiter any
additional questions you have about the role or the company. Knowing these
expectations and requirements will also help you prepare for the interview. For
any IT role, make sure that you know the fundamentals of it really well and
spend extra time reviewing any specific areas that are called out in the job
description. This program will get you started with some of those fundamentals
like networking and operating systems but you'll still need to do some research
on your own. On top of this specific job requirements, you should also take time
to research the company that you're applying to. Learn about the main
characteristics of the company, what their primary products or services are, who
their customers are and where they're located. Look for things that are new,
interesting and exciting about the company's future. Try to learn about some of
the challenges the company might be facing. If the company has a code of conduct
or mission statement online, make sure to read it as it will illustrate what the
company prioritizes. Knowing the company's values will help you decide whether
it's a company you want to work for. Some of these facts may come up during your
interview either as part of a scenario or to question by itself. So you want to
be prepared. Lastly, once you have interview schedule, make sure you know where
to go when you need to be there and what the appropriate attire is for the
interview. This particular tip was especially important for me when I first
interviewed with Google. At the time, Google was in a temporary space above a
restaurant in Ann Arbor, a town I was not very familiar with, there is no sign
or address. So when I got there I had no idea where to go. Thankfully I ride
with some time to spare. So when I got to the right block for the address went
around to the back alley found the address on the fire escape and climbed at the
second floor. The door was open and the woman behind it was a little surprised
to see me entering. Everyone had a bit of a laugh and I told him I couldn't find
the front entrance and I didn't want to be late for my interview. To this day my
manager still talks about my entrance and says it showed him I was resourceful
and determine, who knows maybe that's why they decide to give me the job.